being in the military, you will advance to some degree at first while
you stay in. There are certain milestones in your career that are just
natural filtering points for any community, and I should say every
community is different and and how they operate in this way. Some
communities have Maura Trish in earlier, which could be considered a
function of the ability to just get out earlier. For instance, in the
aviation community, the first time you condone decide to leave. The
Navy is really after you've spent 10 years in as opposed to the service
community, where you can get out and about five years. So there's
some differences in that regard. But in that time frame you will
at least attained the rank of lieutenant or 03 as it, as it is termed,
um, moving past that it's a bit more competitive because some of
it is not simply moving up in rank, but some of it is attaining greater
positional authority, and it's really the positional authority
positions that have the greatest filtering effect. So if you do not
end up doing well enough in one positional in one position, you may
not be selected for the next position. I would also say that a lot
of it is based on timing. Timing is a huge factor in how you and how
you promote so, uh, there. And that's something that you can can't
necessarily control but in some ways is foreseeable. So, to put it succinctly,
there is plenty of room for promotion and upward mobility.
But you have to understand there are There are certainly checkpoints
where that act as natural filtering mechanisms. Um, timing is saying,
is a significant factor. But if you do not perform in those jobs,
you most certainly will not promote, regardless of timing. A typical
career path is, is whatever the community makes it, Mike my career
path or what's the typical career path? And aviation is gonna be
different when you join. When you get to the point that I'm in, the
Navy will have well established, says different appreciation for different
things by that time. So my career path, uh, and I I would say
that I stayed on a typical career path For the majority of my tour.
You do a C tour and then you go go to a short tour that is considered
a production tour. So that would be It is an example that would be
training pilots to move into the fleet and, in my case, specifically
training play of pilots that are operating on the aircraft that was
flying as opposed to initial flight training. After that, you go
to a disassociated see tour, which means you aren't necessarily going
to fly. If you're an aviator, you're gonna be attached to perhaps
something a different unit. You might be ship's company. And then after
that tour, which is a C tour, they even move into your department
head to her. And the department head tour is probably the greatest
has the greatest filtering effect of any position in aviation. If you
do not attain a competitive number one ranking out of the department
head, you will not have the chance to screen for command, which
is the next positional authority. And essentially, is what all of the
the personnel folks consider to be like their job to prepare every
person to take command, knowing that not everyone will